Let's have a brief overview of basic compared to enhanced ecommerce tracking.
Basic ecommerce tracking allows you to track
transaction and product information including: revenue,
quantity, tax, shipping, product ID,
product name and basic category information.
This gives you good insights into your revenue generation transactions on your website.
Then can be coupled with your acquisition data as
well as other standard Google Analytics reporting data.
Enhanced ecommerce tracking allows you to see all of
the basic ecommerce data along with additional insights into how promotions
and product lists as well as more detailed categories and
additional ecommerce actions such as Add to Cart or move from Cart,
checkout funnel steps, product reviews and product clicks and
how these lead to the actual transaction and revenue that you see as well.
You can configure both basic and enhanced ecommerce tracking
using your Tag Management System.
For example, GTM or via
inline tracking code if you still happen to be coding your analytics inline.
Let's take a brief look at the ecommerce reporting.
So, I've clicked into the conversions navigation tab on
the left hand navigation and then the ecommerce drop-down and overview.
Right away, I can see summary data charted by day.
I can also see some high-level overview metrics such as revenue,
conversion rate, transaction counts,
average order value on my website.
This will be basic ecommerce data and
a basic ecommerce implementation will give you that data.
I can also see some additional data that's being driven by
the fact that this is an enhanced ecommerce implementation.
I see internal promotion performance.
I also see order coupons and I see that I have enhanced ecommerce product categories.
I can also see some additional basic ecommerce data such as products,
names and I can see product revenue by product name under the overview report.
This is a nice single view report that is
standard in Google Analytics when you're using ecommerce tracking.
Again, depending on whether you're using basic or enhanced ecommerce,
you'll see more or less data here.
So, all of this data can be drilled down in
greater detail in the expanded ecommerce reports.
It does rely on passing this data into GA with relevant hits.
So, let's take a look at how you actually configure
this data to get into GA when it's relevant.